---
author: Miklós Koren
title: How to maximize your ERC chances
date: CEU ERC Workshop, August 28, 2024
aspectratio: 1610
lang: en
code: missing
description: Talk at How to maximize your ERC chances
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1589828994446-72390edc2143?crop=entropy&cs=tinysrgb&fit=max&fm=jpg&ixid=M3w2ODAxOTV8MHwxfHJhbmRvbXx8fHx8fHx8fDE3MzI2NDM2MjF8&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&q=80&w=1080
categories: []
event_date: '2024-08-28'
location: Ceu
links:
- text: Slides
  url: https://github.com/korenmiklos/talks/blob/master/2024-08-28-ceu/README.pdf
---

## My ERC history

### Proposals

Two successful and three unsuccessful proposals.

### Evaluations

On ERC Starting Grant panel 2020 and 2022. Expert reviewer for several proposals in other years.

## The process
### B1: five-page synopsis
- Reviewed by 3-4 generalists on evaluation panel.
- Evaluated in panel discussion.
- 25-30% success rate.

### B2: 14-page proposal
- **Only read if B1 has passed.**
- Reviewed by, *in addition*, 3-4 specialist external reviewers.
- Evaluated in panel discussion after reviews and interview.
- 40-50% success rate.

### Interview
- Present your proposal (online) in front of the panel.
- Answer questions, typically from 3-4 panel members, also reflecting external reviews.

## What you can do
1. Craft an exciting and coherent research plan.
2. Make B1 perfect.
3. Make the interview perfect.

## Craft an exciting and coherent research plan
Explain *what* you will do and *how*. Useful for you and makes the proposal credible.

Lot of work before funding, but worth it.

Better one big question than several loosely related projects.

In economics, 4-5 studies are promised. Best to have a common theme and an arc.

## Make B1 perfect
Panel members come from different fields. You have to convince them to *want* to read your proposal.

If there is relevant connection in other fields, cite it.

## Make the interview perfect
Any amount of preparation is not too much. Best use of your time.

Here you can explain your proposal and react to questions/comments. (You won't see them in advance.)

## Some don'ts
### Don't hide your related work
Be transparent about your own related work. If you have a paper, cite it.

Beware: reviewers will see your proposal 5-8 months after submission.

### Don't strategize too much
Don't try to guess what the panel wants. It is a diverse group.

Don't spend time guessing who will be on the panel. Can even be counterproductive.

# Good luck!